Populate `Modify` RPC section (#55)
openconfig/gribi: doc/specification.md

# 4 Service Definition

> The gRIBI service is a single gRPC service currently defined in [`gribi.proto`](https://github.com/openconfig/gribi/blob/master/v1/proto/service/gribi.proto). It includes three RPCs:

Reviewer: Is the intention of "currently defined in" because we might move to some v2 at some point in the future? I suspect that we can just say "is defined in".

 * `Modify` - used by the clients to modify the device's RIB.
 * `Get` - a server streaming RPC which can be used by a client to retrieve the
   current set of installed gRIBI entries.
 * `Flush` - a unary RPC that is used as a low-complexity means to remove
   entries from a server.

IANA has reserved [TCP port 9340](https://www.iana.org/assignments/service-names-port-numbers/service-names-port-numbers.xhtml?search=9340#Google_Networking) for gRIBI service.

## 4.1 `Modify`

> The `Modify` provides a bidirectional streaming RPC for clients to modify the device's RIB. A client sends `ModifyRequest` messages that contains a set of `AFTOperations` to the device. The device process the received requests and responds them asynchronously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Modify` provides a bidirectional streaming RPC for clients to modify the device's RIB. A client sends `ModifyRequest` messages that contains a set of `AFTOperation` messages to the device. The device processes the received requests and responds them asynchronously.
```

> ### 4.1.1 Client-Server Session Neogotiation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4.1.1 Client-Server Session Negotiation
```

> A gRIBI client is identified by gRPC connection, i.e., if a connection drops and reconnect with the same `election_id` value, it will be considered as another client.

Reviewer: I think a client is probably identified by a `Modify` RPC. i.e., if I do something like:

```golang

conn, _ := grpc.DialContext(server, ...)
c := gribipb.NewGRIBIClient(conn)

s1, _ := c.Modify(ctx)
s2, _ := c.Modify(ctx)
```

in the same code, then I think that this would be seen as two different clients at the target in the reference server today (reference: https://github.com/openconfig/gribigo/blob/main/server/server.go#L274). Given that gRPC doesn't give us access to the underlying client address (for example), or anything that would let us know that these two different clients are actually the same, I think it is reasonable to say that a gRIBI client is identified by a `Modify` stream.

Reviewer: This follows further because at the start of `s1` and `s2` we expect that the election behaviours would need to be specified.

> Before a client starting sending `AFTOperations`, it should reach agreement with the device regarding the following session parameters

Reviewer: Is `reach agreement` the correct way to specify this. It might be better to say:

> Before a client starts sending `AFTOperation` messages, it must specify the desired parameters
> for the session:

Author: Done. Also I changed "must" to "should" because we do allow the client skip the `params`. In that case, the server will assum the default parameters.

* Redundancy Mode (defined in x.y.z)
* Persistent Mode (defined in x.y.z)
* Acknoledge Mode (defined in x.y.z)

> A client starts the neogotiation process by sending the first `ModifyRequest` message with only `params` populated. `params` MUST NOT be sent more than once during the lifetime of the RPC session. All clients MUST send the same values of all the attributes of `params`. If the device can process and support the requesed parameters, it should respond with `ModifyResponse` that has `session_params_result.status = OK`. Otherwise, the device should close the `Modify` RPC and set the generic gRPC [`Status.code`](https://github.com/googleapis/googleapis/blob/master/google/rpc/status.proto) per the following scenarios:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A client starts the negotiation process by sending the first `ModifyRequest` message with only `params` populated. `params` MUST NOT be sent more than once during the lifetime of the RPC session. All clients MUST send the same values of all the attributes of `params`. If the device can process and support the requesed parameters, it should respond with `ModifyResponse` that has `session_params_result.status = OK`. Otherwise, the device should close the `Modify` RPC and set the generic gRPC [`Status.code`](https://github.com/googleapis/googleapis/blob/master/google/rpc/status.proto) per the following scenarios:
```

> A client starts the neogotiation process by sending the first `ModifyRequest` message with only `params` populated. `params` MUST NOT be sent more than once during the lifetime of the RPC session. All clients MUST send the same values of all the attributes of `params`. If the device can process and support the requesed parameters, it should respond with `ModifyResponse` that has `session_params_result.status = OK`. Otherwise, the device should close the `Modify` RPC and set the generic gRPC [`Status.code`](https://github.com/googleapis/googleapis/blob/master/google/rpc/status.proto) per the following scenarios:

Reviewer: For discussion - how much do we want to answer the "why" questions here. For example, should we say "because some of the parameters specify behaviours for the whole server (e.g., how clients are elected), all clients MUST agree and send the same `params` to the server".

* If any of the requested parameter is not fully implemented, set `Status.code` to `UNIMPLEMENTED`. The `Status.details` should contain `ModifyRPCErrorDetails` message with `reason` set to `UNSUPPORTED_PARAMS`.
* If the requested `params` does not match parameters of other live `Modify` RPC sessions, set the `Status.code` to `FAILED_PRECONDITION`. The `Status.details` should contain `ModifyRPCErrorDetails` message with `reason` set to `PARAMS_DIFFER_FROM_OTHER_CLIENTS`.
* If other cases, set the `Status.code` to `FAILED_PRECONDITION`. The `Status.details` should contain `ModifyRPCErrorDetails` message with appropriate `reason` populated.

> It is possible that the client skips the negotiation step. In this case, the first `ModifyRequest` message from the client contains `AFTOperations` and does not populate `params`. The device will assume defautl parameters are requested by the client. If any of the default parameters is not supported by the device, the device should close the `Modify` RPC upon receiving the first `ModifyRequest` message, and the device should set the generic gRPC [`Status.code`](https://github.com/googleapis/googleapis/blob/master/google/rpc/status.proto) to `UNIMPLEMENTED`. The `Status.details` should contain `ModifyRPCErrorDetails` message with `reason` set to `UNSUPPORTED_PARAMS`. The following are the default parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible that the client skips the negotiation step. In this case, the first `ModifyRequest` message from the client contains `AFTOperations` and does not populate `params`. The device will assume the default parameters are requested by the client. If any of the default parameters is not supported by the device, the device should close the `Modify` RPC upon receiving the first `ModifyRequest` message, and the device should set the generic gRPC [`Status.code`](https://github.com/googleapis/googleapis/blob/master/google/rpc/status.proto) to `UNIMPLEMENTED`. The `Status.details` should contain `ModifyRPCErrorDetails` message with `reason` set to `UNSUPPORTED_PARAMS`. The following are the default parameters:
```

* `redundancy` = `ALL_PRIMARY`.
* `persistence` = `DELETE`
* `ack_type` = `RIB_ACK`

### 4.1.2 Election ID

> Election ID helps the device to consume the election resullt in `SINGLE_PRIMARY` mode (redundancy mode is defined in x.y.z).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The election ID informs the device of the result of an external election amongst the clients connected to it (redundancy mode is defined in x.y.z).
```

* `ModifyRequest.election_id` is to indicate the clients election result. It should only be populated when the client's election ID changed after an election result (election is defined in x.y.z).
* `AFTOperation.election_id` is consumed by the server to determine whether to process the AFTOperation. In `SINGLE_PRIMARY` mode, an `AFTOperation` message should always have the `election_id` populated.

In `SINGLE_PRIMARY` mode, the device processes the `AFTOperation` only if all the following conditions met:
* The `AFTOperation.election_id` is equal to the `ModifyRequest.election_id` last advertised by the client.
* The `AFTOperation.election_id` has the highest value amongst all the election IDs that the device knows about, i.e., the client is the primary client.

Otherwise, the device discards the `AFTOperation` and returns a `ModifyResponse` with `AFTResult` = `FAILED`.

`ModifyRequest.election_id` MUST be non zero. When a device receives an value of 0, it should close the `Modify` RPC and set `Status.code` to `INVALID_ARGUMENT`. The election ID can only be increased monotonically by a client during a RPC session. This simplifies server implementation.

### 4.1.3 AFTOperation

> RIB modification desire sent by clients are carried by a set of `AFTOperation` messages. Three types of operations are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A client expresses modifications to the RIB modification by sending a set of `AFTOperation` messages. Three types of operations are supported:
```

* When an ACK is sent to the client.
* NACK cases:
  * semantically invalid
  * hardware failure
  * missing entry for `DELETE`
* coaelscion - must ACK every operation ID
* acknowledging entries in the presence of other protocol routes.

#### 4.1.3.4 Life cycle of an `AFTOperation`

The life of an AFTOperation starts when a client creates it, and ends in the following scenarios:
* The device failed to program the operation into RIB. // Return `FAILED`.
* `ack_type` = `RIB_ACK`, the device programmed the operation into RIB successfully. // Return `RIB_PROGRAMMED`.
* `ack_type` = `RIB_AND_FIB_ACK`, the device programmed the operation into FIB successfully. // Return `FIB_PROGRAMMED`.
* `ack_type` = `RIB_AND_FIB_ACK`, the device has successfully programmed the operation into RIB but failed to program it into FIB. // Return `FIB_FAILED`. Note that this is regardless if a device is going to retry the FIB programming or not. The client can promptly send another `AFTOperations` for explicit behaviors (e.g. `ADD` for retry, and `DELETE` for stopping retry).
* The existing gRPC session is disconnected/canceled. All pending `AFTOperations` from the client should be cancelled.

> * The device has discovered a failover of the master client (see xxx for more details).

Reviewer: What does a failover of the master client? Does this mean a change in the elected leader?

Author: Yes, "a change in the elected leader" is a better wording. Done.

> Only during the life cycle should the device keep the client updated via `AFTResult` message. 

Reviewer: Is the intention here to say that once we reach one of the "terminal" codes, then we do not send further responses?

Author: Yes, I plan to optimize this sentence when I add a section for regarding ModifyResponse.

* `ALL_PRIMARY`: The device accepts AFTOperations from all clients. [Place holder for more details]

#### 4.1.4.1 Client Election In `SINGLE_PRIMARY`

gRIBI server does not paticipate in the election process, rather it consumes the election result. Election result is reflected in the `ModifyRequest.election_id` sent by clients. gRIBI server treats the client of the highest election ID as the primary client.

When a client's election ID changed, the client should send a `ModifyRequest` with only the `ModifyRequest.election_id` populated. The device should respond with a `ModifyResponse` that has only the `election_id` field populated. The `ModifyResponse.election_id` by the server should be the highest election ID that the device has learnt from any client.

If the `ModifyRequest.election_id` sent by a client matches the previous highest value, the newer client is considered primary. This allows for a client to reconnect
without an external election having taken place. It is gRIBI clients' responsibility to avoid more than one `Modify` RPC sessions that are of the same highest Election ID, i.e., "dual-primary" situation in a `SINGLE_PRIMARY` mode.

> #### 4.1.4.2 Client Failover In `SINGLE_PRIMARY`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 4.1.4.2 New Leader Election In `SINGLE_PRIMARY`
```

> Failover happnes when a new client connects with `ModifyRequest.election_id` equals to, or greater than, the previous highest value that learnt by the server from any client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Switching to a new leader client occurs when a new client connects with `ModifyRequest.election_id` equals to, or greater than, the previous highest value that learnt by the server from any client.
```

> Upon discovering a failover, the device:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon discovering a new leader has been elected, the device:
```
